are you ready to take your podcast to
the next level the first thing that we
learned is podcasting is like index it's
time to get a lot better on top of that
just having key words but not promoting
it isn't enough here's the secret this
is Neil
Patel helping you succeed through online
marketing all right so we're going to
talk about how to make your podcast more
popular this is these are lessons learn
from seven years of doing this PO and
what we're also going to do with the
bonus here is we're going to share how
we're changing things up so Neo you can
go ahead and kick this one off yeah so
the first thing that we learned is
podcasting is like index and just like
your website the more web pages you have
the more traffic you can get but with
most podcasts once you've been doing
long enough they only show the last 10
20 30 episodes or whatever it may be
showcase all your episodes in your feed
if you showcase all your episodes the
more traffic you're going to get from
people searching that's a big mistake
that most new podcasts make and it can
impact your views and listen quite
drastically the other thing that we've
learned and Eric can talk more about
this he has a retention numbers uh more
than I do 85 to 90% of people will
listen through our podcast they're like
five to six minutes each um in terms of
people that return it's actually not as
many you you would think because if I
pull up our cohort retention graph let's
say you listen to this podcast episode
40% will come back for the next one and
then for the next one after that maybe
only like 10% and there's a there's a
significant drop off and our our podcast
is you digest a lot information you take
action on the strategies and then you
end up going from there and you can
always end up listening again when you
want more marketing advice but the big
thing that I was getting with retention
is is the better your retention the
better off you're going to end up doing
when you have CP retention we find that
it's just not as good when it comes to
views um whether it's the algorithms
Within These platforms we just find that
they are tracking retention and how
people are watching through but even
though our retention is high the cave I
would give is we still get way more
listens if our episodes are double or
triple the length even if the retention
drops down so the algorithms aren't just
looking at retention for your episode
they're looking at retention for your
episode based on how long it is so
they're taking that in factor from what
we can tell the thing to also speak to
too is is break through to the next
level which we'll talk about what we're
planning to do we're just going to be
recording a lot more in person we're
going to break things down a little bit
and we also know that when we record in
person the videos perform a lot better
for whatever reason on YouTube because
whatever you're seeing on the screen
right now people are sick and tired of
watching these Zoom meetings these
Talking Heads we're aiming for higher
quality which means higher retention
yeah the other thing that we've learned
about podcasts is similar to just SEO if
you do your keyword research and you put
in keywords within your title it makes a
massive difference on listens I don't
know why people just don't do this you
can use any of the tools out there for
this but no joke putting popular
keywords in your title towards the
beginning generates you way more views
than if you don't have popular keywords
within your title similar to how you do
like traditional SEO you you want to
spend a lot of time with promotion you
know I I've always talked about if you
create if you spend 20% of your time
creating the content 80% of your time
promoting you'll do much better versus
just cranking out tons of content and
similar to podcasting the think Eric and
I don't do enough but we found it to
really boost our numbers we've done I
don't know what you want to call them
but let's call it shout out for
shoutouts right in which we'll trade
Impressions at Impressions so let's say
if there's another show we'll trade a th
impressions for thousand Impressions or
100,000 impressions for 100,000
Impressions whatever the number is and
this is important because if you have a
new podcast with only a thousand
Impressions you can still trade a
thousand Impressions and someone else
even if their podcast has 10 million
impressions a month they can just give
you a thousand Impressions and you shout
out their episodes or their podcast
within your episodes and they shout out
your podcast within their episodes and
that really helps juice your numbers and
create it creates amazing not just fans
or subscribers but it creates loyal ones
as well other than that I think if your
ideas are good so you think about we
talked about a couple episodes ago with
YouTube the total addressable Market of
your idea the broader it is the better
right and I think the total addressable
Market also with the idea as it relates
to the quality of your Niche that
matters too so if we whenever we talk
about experiments that we're running
that work really well those tend to do a
lot better than us talking about more
General topics we're getting more
aggressive with it and um I think we're
getting we're going to start to get a
lot better you'll see this in the next
couple weeks just look at our YouTube
because I'm doing it from my other
channels right now dude and I do the
same thing I used to create content just
for YouTube but now I slice and dice a
lot of our podcast videos and our
recordings for YouTube Instagram Etc uh
it does wonders for us it performs very
similar and it saves a lot of time but
um you know that goes back to content
repurposing and we didn't do that at the
beginning I don't know why but uh we
started that years later and we should
have started that literally from day one
now if you have any questions leave a
comment below I'm here to answer them
and help you all if you enjoy the video
like it share tell people about it thank
you very much